every choice made has led to this the
Clone Wars is finally getting a final
season to cap off its original 133
episode run now if you haven't seen
Clone Wars or you just want to refresher
I'm here to sum it all up before season
7 Clone Wars takes place between Episode
two attack of the clones and episode 3
Revenge of the Sith telling the story of
the Galactic Civil War Between the
separatists and the Republic I can't go
over every single story but I'm gonna
tell you the essentials and give you
some broad strokes about the overall
arcs and tell you a few things that I
think are cool to connect to the movies
a major new character is ahsoka tano
Anakin's new Padawan at first she's
headstrong and arrogant but her
introduction into the Jedi Order helps
teach us the audience about how the
order operates for instance in one
episode she's forced to leave anakin
behind after his ship crashes another
jedi uses this as a lesson to show why
jedi can't have personal attachments
don't lose a thousand lives just to save
one much like her master Anakin ahsoka
is tempted by romantic attachment she
gets close to lux bonteri a former
separatist who helps the Soka liberate
his home planet the sacrifice gave on
her own its freedom unlike anakin she
never indulged her feelings and stayed
squarely in the friendzone and one arc
lux gets close to a woman named Stila
and ahsoka gets jealous
great diva ends up dying in the war
which radicalizes her brother sagar era
who's played by forest whitaker in rogue
one over the series ahsoka evolves into
one of the most capable Jedi in Star
Wars canon she even becomes a mentor
figure helping Jedi younglings create
their lightsabers and teaching a civics
class on Mandalore
and yes Clone Wars made an episode about
a study hall in space and you're going
to love it it's every citizens duty to
challenge their leaders to keep them
honest and hold them accountable if
they're not she becomes close to clone
trooper Rex leader of the 501st legion
one great thing about this show is that
it humanizes the clones after the movies
portrayed them as kind of anonymous
drones we see them trained as cadets how
about motors this is our last practice
net work to inspire their fellow
troopers me and my batch isn't trained
and ready
we'll take back off post and in one
episode Rex even meets a trooper who
deserted the army to raise a family
and they have a whole debate about the
merits of fighting someone else's war it
was just another expendable clone
waiting for my turn to be slaughtered in
a war that made no sense to me
in one brutal art these now humanized
clones are treated like cannon fodder by
corrupt Jedi general who's expelled from
the order for war crimes
I said so this series really gets into
the trenches of warfare drawing a lot of
inspiration from the Vietnam War and
when a clone dies it's heartbreaking
like 99 how can I help
poor 99
like Anakin Count Dooku also takes on an
apprentice a force sensitive assassin
named Asajj of interest Jedi scum he
doesn't make her an official Sith
apprentice because there can only be two
at a time but she definitely serves the
dark side of the force and fights Jedi
on numerous occasions I mean while
Anakin secret marriage to Padme
resonates on an emotional level that the
film's last ironically it took an
animated series to give depth to
live-action characters the thought of
not being with you I can't breathe what
you called this home what else would I
call it
for instance Padme has a whole life
separate from Anakin as opposed to the
movies where she's basically treated as
a vessel who gives life to the original
trilogy's heroes she works to end the
war by having peace talks with the
separatists the Republic recognizes the
tragedy of war but there is nothing we
can change that has already occurred and
she works to bring neutral systems into
the Republic such as Mandalore which
we'll go over in just a second one of
the best new characters introduced in
the Clone Wars as a bounty hunter named
CAD Bane I don't work for free he was
hired by Darth Sidious to kidnap for
sensitive babies and bring them to
Mustafar now I mentioned this because
later the Empire will have a history of
a client force sensitive babies just one
way this show links to the Mandalorian
and speaking of Mandalore it's a key
location and the Clone Wars it's a
neutral planet that has sworn off
violence after war devastated the
planet's surface
there's even an episode that focuses on
how neutrality means you have to rely on
black market goods which causes some
kids to be poisoned by off-brand teeth I
love this show their leader is Duchess
Satine and back in the day she and
obi-wan Kenobi had feelings for each
other that they never indulged odd you
said the word I would have left the Jedi
Order
so this theme of forbidden love keeps
coming up among the Jedi but Anakin is
the only one who actually indulges in
these desires obi-wan fights against
Death Watch a Mandalorian terrorist
group that wants to make Mandalore
violence again they're led by pre vizla
and satine's own sister Bo Catan for
generations my ancestors fought proudly
as warriors against the
I visit fights ob1 with a special
Mandalorian lightsaber but he's defeated
and takes death watch out into exile
welcome to intermission of the Clone
Wars recap where I will quickly mention
characters and stories that are great
but probably won't matter in season 7
there's a space pirate named Hondo
greetings and in one episode that's an
amount of the Seven Samurai the Jedi
have to train villagers to fight off his
forces at one point a kaiju is set
losing Khorasan on Geonosis there's an
outbreak
it turns the bug people into zombies and
there's ot guest stars like Chewbacca
Tarkin Boba Fett Admiral Ackbar and
Jabba the Hutt we even meet Chavez kid a
little huddling named stinky welcome
back from intermission moving on and
Darth Sidious becomes worried about
asajj ventress because he doesn't want
her and Dooku to join forces and
overthrow him so he orders Dooku to kill
her but she survives and swears revenge
yeah Ventress we discover is one of the
Nightsisters of Dathomir they're a race
of force witches who swear to help
Ventress get revenge on Dooku but now
Dooku is looking for a new apprentice so
he goes to the Nightsisters and says hey
a few years ago a mail from your species
became a really powerful Sith and he got
any more guys like him and that mail by
the way was Darth Maul so the head witch
mother Talzin says yeah I got a great
one for you he's Darth Maul's brother
and his name is Savage Opress except
it's actually pronounced
mother Talzin secretly control Subash
part of her revenge scheme with Ventress
Sousa Vaz tries to kill Dooku doesn't go
well but then mother Talzin gives them a
new job to go find his brother Maul
because it turns out that Darth Maul has
been alive all along
what oppress finds Maul who's been
taking a few years off to go back crazy
but the Nightsisters sort him out with
force magic
shortly before Dooku kills all of them
our IP Nightsisters afterwards Ventress
bums around the galaxy and joins up with
little Boba Fett and his bounty hunter
friends this is your boss you got a
problem with that
my name's boba Darth Maul and his
brother savage won't revenge on all the
people who did them wrong you know these
guys small teams up with Death Watch
agreed to help their leader Pre Vizsla
take over Mandalore if he helps small
get revenge on his enemies we can help
you reclaim Mandalore and punish Kenobi
for his trespasses so they go on a
rampage across the galaxy attacking
gangsters it consolidated their crime
syndicates into one organization that
Darth Maul controls they even attack
Jabba's palace on Tatooine the gangsters
attack Mandalore which has basically no
army so Death Watch can show up and save
the day and it works vis less crowned
king or whatever but then Maul
double-crosses him and conquers
Mandalore for himself Bo Catan leads a
Death Watch rebellion Mandalore's plunge
in the Civil War and obi-wan arrives to
help his one true love Duchess Satine
but then Maul finally gets his revenge
and Satine ends up like that other
Satine later Darth Sidious shows up kill
savage and tortures his former
apprentice it is intense as this is
happening there's a bombing at the Jedi
Temple
ahsoka investigates but she's framed for
killing the main suspect of the bombing
she's arrested escapes from jail and
teams up with asajj ventress to prove
that she's innocent I have to admit
I never saw us doing anything together
ever then she's expelled from the Jedi
Order but unlike OJ she finds the real
killer
the Jedi Council invites ahsoka to
rejoin the order but she's disillusioned
and walks away
this experience also makes Anakin
suspicious of the council an attitude
that he will carry into Revenge of the
Sith obi-wan and the council don't trust
me meanwhile Yoda starts to hear the
voice of qui-gon jinn during his
meditations but he knows that's
impossible because qui-gon is dead and
people definitely can't come back from
the dead so he goes on a quest where he
faces off against the dark side of
himself kind of like Superman 3 and also
fights off the spirits of Dooku and
Sidious then five for spirits put Yoda
in touch with qui-gon so he can teach
him how to turn into a force ghost when
he dies in the end
Yoda concludes that war itself is the
true enemy no longer certain that one
ever does win a war I am meanwhile a
Clone Trooper goes rogue and kills a
Jedi Master
a trooper named five discovers that the
trooper had a secret chip in his head
and that chip is what ordered him to
kill the Jedi and then fives discovers
this chip is in his own head too now
he's wondering how deep does this thing
go he becomes paranoid and insists
there's a conspiracy you don't
understand what I mixed up in it goes
all the way there's Tom but before he
can tell Anakin and obi-wan
he's mysteriously assassinated because
that chip is what tells the clones to
kill the Jedi over 66 but the Clone Wars
is really the story of Anakin Skywalker
and his slow descent toward the dark
side he becomes more powerful but also
he cuts corners and begins taking the
quick and easy path
and he has this prophecy hanging over
his head that he's the chosen one who
will bring balance to the force and one
incredibly weird sad story he goes to a
planet called mortis it's the wellspring
of the Living force he meets three
powerful force beings the daughter who
uses the good side the son who used the
dark side and their father who balances
them out the father once Anakin to
replace him is the only being powerful
enough to balance his children it has
been foretold the chosen one will remain
to keep my children in balance the son
even shows Anakin his future which he
forgets
Anakin rejects the father's offer to
create balance so he can fight in the
war and be with his wife so instead of
embracing his destiny he was blinded by
Zola for Padme no no it's because I'm so
in love with you so love is blinded you
Anakin even becomes jealous of Padme
Zechs banking clan leader rush Clovis
who's secretly in Dooku's pocket Dooku
makes him raise interest rates on the
Republic there's an invasion and Clovis
sacrifices himself to save Padme
this near-death experience shows anakin
that he can't live without her and would
do anything to keep her safe maybe even
massacring a class of preschoolers well
that's the broad strokes of the Clone
Wars if I left anything out please let
me know in the comments below
and if it's your first time here please
subscribe for spring crush I'm Ryan
Terry
[Music]